---
layout: post
title:  "Basic Use: A Guide"
date:   2016-01-30 09:11:03
description: Phasellus hendrerit. Pellent aliquet nibh nec urna. In nis aliquet vel, dapibus id,mattis.
thumbnail: building1.jpg
categories: category2

# Information for the author block
author: Nina Petropoulos
---

If this is your first time using Jekyll, don't be scared! Installing and setting up this particular theme is very, very simple. I'll walk you through it.

## Installation
For now, installation of this theme isn't available through the command line or package managers. Instead, use the Git Repo to grab what you need through a .zip file.

1. Fork and Star the [repo][Artist Theme Repo]
2. Download the .zip and save it to your directory
3. Install Jekyll
4. (Optional) Install Gulp - you certainly don't need it

#### Installing Jekyll
Open the terminal and enter the following command: `gem install jekyll`. Mac users may need to use `sudo`.

For a full Jekyll installation guide, reference the official [Jekyll Docs][Jekyll Docs].

- - -

## Using Jekyll: Servers and Posts

#### Launching a Local Jekyll Server

Using the terminal navigate to your directory then enter the command: `jekyll serve` to start a local server. In your browser enter the local address that Jekyll gives you.

#### Making Posts

To make a new post, create a new `.md` file following this file structure `2020-12-31-post-title.md` within the `_posts` directory. Pay close attention to the head matter at the top of each post. If it's incorrect your Jekyll server will throw errors.

#### Customizing

Change your primary and accent colors inside `assets/css/1-base/_vars.sass` by changing the `$primary` and `$accent-color` variables for site-wide changes.

[Jekyll Docs]: http://jekyllrb.com/docs/installation/
[Artist Theme Repo]: https://github.com/ninapetrop/Artist-Theme
